Turing joins the Binder Federation post - Jupyter blog version (#820)
alan-turing-institute/the-turing-way: communications/blogs/turing_joins_binder_federation.md

> # The Turing Institute invests in Open Infrastructure for Reproducible Research

Reviewer: Maybe capitalise "Invests" here? I get why the capitalisation is the way it is, but the small i looks a little odd on its own!

Author: ```suggestion
# The Turing Institute Invests in Open Infrastructure for Reproducible Research
```

_This is an invited post from The Turing Way and The Alan Turing Institute, collaborators on the Binder project and new members of the Binder Federation._

We are delighted to announce the fourth member of the Binder Federation: [The Alan Turing Institute](https://www.turing.ac.uk/)!
Based in London UK, their infrastructure is hosted on [Microsoft Azure](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-gb/) cloud and is supported by [_The Turing Way_](https://github.com/alan-turing-institute/the-turing-way) project.

## Reproducible and Transparent Science Communication

> Science moves forward by corroboration and the reproducibility crisis in science is [well known](https://www.nature.com/collections/prbfkwmwvz).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Science moves forward by corroboration and [the reproducibility crisis in science is well known](https://www.nature.com/collections/prbfkwmwvz).
```

When a paper is published, there is generally no way for an outsider to verify its results because the underlying data and analysis code are not available for scrutiny.

> This makes the science very difficult to build upon and results in fragile advances and lots of wasted time and money.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This makes the science very difficult to build upon and results in fragile advances and a lot of wasted time and money.
```

> As well as a cultural change in our approach to data science (such as the abolition of 'publish or perish' incentives, secrecy around data, and the drive for novelty), there is also a need for a practical change in the way science is communicated so that it is more transparent regarding the steps that were taken to produce the results.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In addition to a cultural change in our approach to data science (such as the abolition of 'publish or perish' incentives, secrecy around data, and the drive for novelty), there is also a need for a practical change in the way science is communicated so that it is more transparent regarding the steps that were taken to produce the results.
```

This is one of the reasons [funders and publishers are beginning to require that publications include access to the underlying data and analysis code](https://www.data.cam.ac.uk/funders).

> There are a lot of tools available that can make packaging code and resources a lot easier.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are  many tools available that can make packaging code and resources easier.
```

> There are a lot of tools available that can make packaging together code and resources a lot easier.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
There are a lot of tools available that can make packaging code and resources a lot easier.
```
packaging implies "together"?

> [Jupyter Notebooks](https://jupyter-notebook.readthedocs.io/en/stable/notebook.html) are a very popular method of combining code and prose to produce an interactive scientific analysis.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
[Jupyter Notebooks](https://jupyter-notebook.readthedocs.io/en/stable/notebook.html) are a very popular method of combining code, its results and prose to produce an interactive scientific analysis.
```
Having the code right next to its output (or actually the output right next to the code that created it) is a special thing about the notebook. Is "its output" clear to the unsuspecting reader or obscure/unclear what it is referring to?

Author: I like the word "results". I think it links nicely to the first paragraph about the reproducibility crisis, and most of the time, the outputs are the results!

[Docker](https://docs.docker.com/engine/docker-overview/) is used to bundle together, code, data and the software environment into a "container" in such a way that it is easily reused and portable across different systems.
Using cloud computing resources, these tools can be made accessible to anyone, anywhere in the world.
However, learning all of these tools individually (let alone combining them together) can be a huge barrier to researchers since they require a lot of time investment to learn and implement properly.

[BinderHub](https://binderhub.readthedocs.io/en/latest/) is the computational infrastructure that coordinates all of these tools to provide an easy method of creating computing environments for scientific analyses that are reproducible and shareable with anyone, anywhere.

> It rewards reproducible data science and software engineering best practices as it requires a version controlled project with documented software dependencies in order to automatically generate the environment.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It rewards reproducible data science and software engineering best practices, as it requires a version-controlled project with documented software dependencies in order to automatically generate the environment.
```

Turing Research Fellow and lead developer of _The Turing Way_, [Dr Kirstie Whitaker](https://www.turing.ac.uk/people/researchers/kirstie-whitaker), had the following comment on the BinderHub technology.

> BinderHubs package together really fantastic tools like notebooks, docker, cloud computing resources, coordination engines, along with clear version control to deliver reproducible research at the click of a button.
>
> -- Dr Kirstie Whitaker

![BinderHub](https://zenodo.org/api/iiif/v2/e4125eaf-b456-4097-85fc-6a2e80482d1c:96c70193-2f9e-442d-8cf8-21485d8864e1:1728_TURI_Book%20sprint_45%20repo2docker_040619_v2_MK.jpg/full/750,/0/default.jpg)

## The Binder Federation

[The Binder Federation](https://blog.jupyter.org/the-international-binder-federation-4f6235c1537e) is an experiment in open infrastructure for data science and beyond.
It is a community of scientists and open-source developers dedicated to scientific reproducibility, communicating ideas through interactive computing, and providing real-time access to results and analyses.

> The Binder Federation provides interactive data analytics environments to roughly 10,000 unique repositories via 300,000 launches a month, and it relies on its team of partner BinderHubs to collaborate in providing this service.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The Binder Federation provides interactive data analytics environments to roughly 10,000 unique repositories via 400,000 launches a month, and it relies on its team of partner BinderHubs to collaborate in providing this service.
```
We seem to be steady above 100k per week at the moment

Author: Amazing! 🎉

> GKE, OVH, GESIS and now new members the Turing pool their resources to create a sustainable, open-source infrastructure that allows easy creation, sharing of and access to reproducible computational environments.

Reviewer 3: Can we make GkE, OVH and Gesis links people can click?

Author: Done in 6119674

> [GKE](https://jupyterhub-team-compass.readthedocs.io/en/latest/team.html#binder-team), [OVH](https://www.ovh.com/world/), [GESIS](https://notebooks.gesis.org/about/) and now new members the Turing pool their resources to create a sustainable, open-source infrastructure that allows easy creation, sharing of and access to reproducible computational environments.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[GKE](https://jupyterhub-team-compass.readthedocs.io/en/latest/team.html#binder-team), [OVH](https://www.ovh.com/world/), [GESIS](https://notebooks.gesis.org/about/) and now new member **the Turing Institute** pool their resources to create a sustainable, open-source infrastructure that allows easy creation, sharing of and access to reproducible computational environments.
```

> Pooling resources in such a way is an important step for the resilience and sustanability of Project Binder since the dependency between mybinder.org and its funding is now spread across many sources.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Pooling resources in such a way is an important step for the resilience and sustainability of Project Binder since the dependency between mybinder.org and its funding is now spread across many sources.
```
can a dependency between an object and its funding be spread across many sources? Sounds a bit weird

Author: Hmmm, I know. When I give talks I say something along the lines of:

"If Google decides to no longer fund the GKE cluster, this does not mean mybinder.org will disappear. We will probably be running at a greatly reduced capacity, but there are still three clusters available to support the service."

But that's not very snazzy written down.

It also facilitates the decentralisation of the knowledge required to deploy and manage a BinderHub.

_Turing Way_ contributor [Dr Sarah Gibson](https://www.turing.ac.uk/people/researchers/sarah-gibson) is also a [mybinder.org](https://mybinder.org) operator.
The operators are responsible for the day-to-day operations and maintainance of the main website.
She was therefore perfectly positioned to lead this project and bring the Turing into the Binder Federation.

> I'm so excited that we've successfully merged our resources at the Turing into the mybinder.org infrastructure!
> This achievement marks Binder's maturity as a federated project and the Turing's commitment to supporting open-source tooling and communities.
>
> -- Dr Sarah Gibson

![Federation](https://miro.medium.com/max/1666/1*KU35naJhl1LSDxKY8gog4g.png)

## How Can You Get Involved?

If this has piqued your interest, there are a few ways to get involved in the Binder Federation!

One way is to become a [mybinder.org](https://mybinder.org) operator.

> This is a low-tech contribution which involves hanging out in the project's [gitter room](https://gitter.im/jupyterhub/binder) answering questions, providing constructive input in the [GitHub repo](https://github.com/jupyterhub/binderhub), and being an active member of the community.

Reviewer 3: What do you want to say with "low-tech" here? It somehow makes me think it is "not a real contribution". Somehow  all the negative connotations of "not a code contribution" :-/ Can we formulate it as a positive? (Trying to think of something but drawing a blank right now)

Author: "This pathway does not require you to provide computational resources, but instead hang out in gitter..." ?

Reviewer 3: Ja, dunno. Need to think before I can say something :-/

Reviewer 4: I agree with @betatim's gut feeling here. What about: "There are no specific technical skills required for this contribution. It involves hanging out ...."

Reviewer 3: How about "this is a job that requires skills such as working as a distributed team, planning ahead, empathy with our users, and not getting stressed when the service is down and we don't (yet) know why". Defining it via the things you do need or we would love to see more of instead of the things we think you might not need.

What is a good way to summarise "you derive pleasure from helping build and run a thing that most of the time for most of its users 'just works'. It doesn't stress you out that you have the power to shutdown a system that potentially several classes and workshops are using right this moment to teach people new things. Coordinating all this with other humans over the internet is fun for you."

Author: "This is a job for people who are passionate about building a slick service for a diverse range of users"?

> Invitations to join the operating team are extended to outstanding members of our community.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Invitations to join the operating team are extended to outstanding members of our community.
You can [learn more about how to contribute to Binder and JupyterHub here](https://jupyterhub-team-compass.readthedocs.io/en/latest/contributing.html).
```

> Alternatively, you could join the federation by facilitating the deployment of a  BinderHub!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Alternatively, you could [join the BinderHub federation](https://binderhub.readthedocs.io/en/latest/federation/federation.html)
by facilitating the deployment of a  BinderHub!
```

You can donate a cluster or cloud credits to the mybinder.org operating team.
Your deployment would then be managed from the [mybinder.org-deploy repo](https://github.com/jupyterhub/mybinder.org-deploy) with input from the team and community.

> This is a more high-tech contribution but over a shorter time period.

Reviewer 3: Related to the low-tech above: can we somehow rephrase this? Maybe we should address both at the same time when rephrasing.

When I started reading line 62 I thought this was going to be the section for people who are good at politics, making connections, networking, etc. Along the lines of "Do you like this cause and want to help out? Good at introducing people to each other and making money flow? This is how you can help!" but I think that isn't what you had in mind.

Author: This is @KirstieJane's idea of someone giving us a bunch of credits/money and we deploy another cluster as we see fit.

> Lastly rather than joining the federation, you could deploy your own BinderHub for your organisation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Lastly, rather than joining the Federation, you could deploy your own BinderHub for your organisation.
```

Reviewer: I think there are a few more instances of "federation" rather than "Federation" waiting in other comments - something to check after finishing the first round of reviews.

A BinderHub for an organisation is incredibly valuable for opening the pathway to reproducible research using greater computational resources, access to private data, and other features not offered by the public and free mybinder.org service.
This is still a beneficial pathway for the Binder community because the more BinderHubs that exist in the world, the more we can learn together around solving implementation issues and the more we decentralise the knowledge required to deploy and run a BinderHub.

There are [documentation](https://binderhub.readthedocs.io) and [tutorials](https://bit.ly/zero-to-binderhub-workshop) on how to deploy BinderHub and the team are happy to [answer any questions](https://gitter.im/jupyterhub/binder).

## About The Alan Turing Institute

> [The Alan Turing Institute](https://turing.ac.uk), headquarterd in the British Library, London, is the UK's national institute for data science and artificial intelligence.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[The Alan Turing Institute](https://turing.ac.uk), headquartered in the British Library, London, is the UK's national institute for data science and artificial intelligence.
```

> The Institute acts as a hub bringing together cutting edge research from it's network of [university and industry partners](https://www.turing.ac.uk/collaborate-turing/current-partnerships-and-collaborations) to solve real world problems across it's range of [challenge areas](https://www.turing.ac.uk/research/challenges).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Institute acts as a hub, bringing together cutting edge research from it's network of [university and industry partners](https://www.turing.ac.uk/collaborate-turing/current-partnerships-and-collaborations) to solve real world problems across it's range of [challenge areas](https://www.turing.ac.uk/research/challenges).
```

> The Institute acts as a hub bringing together cutting edge research from it's network of [university and industry partners](https://www.turing.ac.uk/collaborate-turing/current-partnerships-and-collaborations) to solve real world problems across it's range of [challenge areas](https://www.turing.ac.uk/research/challenges).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Institute acts as a hub bringing together cutting edge research from its network of [university and industry partners](https://www.turing.ac.uk/collaborate-turing/current-partnerships-and-collaborations) to solve real world problems across its range of [challenge areas](https://www.turing.ac.uk/research/challenges).
```

> This Institute's mission is to make great leaps in data science and artificial intelligence research in order to change the world for the better.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Institute's mission is to make great leaps in data science and artificial intelligence research in order to change the world for the better.
```

This is a more high-tech contribution but over a shorter time period.

Lastly, rather than joining the Federation, you could deploy your own BinderHub for your organisation.
A BinderHub for an organisation is incredibly valuable for opening the pathway to reproducible research using greater computational resources, access to private data, and other features not offered by the public and free mybinder.org service.
This is still a beneficial pathway for the Binder community because the more BinderHubs that exist in the world, the more we can learn together around solving implementation issues and the more we decentralise the knowledge required to deploy and run a BinderHub.

There are [documentation](https://binderhub.readthedocs.io) and [tutorials](https://bit.ly/zero-to-binderhub-workshop) on how to deploy BinderHub and the team are happy to [answer any questions](https://gitter.im/jupyterhub/binder).

## About The Alan Turing Institute

[The Alan Turing Institute](https://turing.ac.uk), headquartered in the British Library, London, is the UK's national institute for data science and artificial intelligence.

> The Institute acts as a hub, bringing together cutting edge research from it's network of [university and industry partners](https://www.turing.ac.uk/collaborate-turing/current-partnerships-and-collaborations) to solve real world problems across it's range of [challenge areas](https://www.turing.ac.uk/research/challenges).

Author: ```suggestion
The Institute acts as a hub, bringing together cutting edge research from its network of [university and industry partners](https://www.turing.ac.uk/collaborate-turing/current-partnerships-and-collaborations) to solve real world problems across its range of [challenge areas](https://www.turing.ac.uk/research/challenges).
```

Read more about _The Turing Way_ in this [Turing Impact Story](https://www.turing.ac.uk/research/impact-stories/changing-culture-data-science).

## About Project Binder

> [Binder](https://mybinder.readthedocs.io/en/latest/about.html) is a community within Project Jupyter and received the [ACM Software System Award in 2017](https://awards.acm.org/award_winners/perez_9039634) for language agnostic tools which have become "a de facto standard for data analysis in research, education, journalism, and industry".

Reviewer 3: I think we should put a full stop between "Binder is a community within Jupyter" and "Received the ...". Right now it is super hard to know if Binder or Jupyter received the ACM award.

Author: I move it to the "About Jupyter" section since Jupyter won the award
